>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
JANUARY 5, RECORD BREAKING AND
DANGEROUSLY COLD TEMPERATURE
GRIP MUCH OF THE NATION.
>>> HEZBOLLAH ACQUIRES ADVANCE
WEAPONS WHAT CAN TARGET MOST O
ISRAEL
>>>IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
CONTROVERSIAL LAWS THAT HAVE
REDUCED THE DRUNK DRIVIN
DEATHS
>> THIS IS A PERFECT DETERRENC
THEORY IN ACTION
>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
NEW YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THIS NOT JUST ANOTHER COLD AND
SNOWY WINTER'S DAY ACROSS MUCH
OF THE NATION, BUT THE START O
ONE OF THE COLDEST DAYS IN THE
PAST 20 YEARS.
TEMPERATURES ARE NOW PLUNGIN
THROUGHOUT THE PLAINS AND TH
MIDWEST AND IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF DAYS THE EXTREME COLD WAVE IS
EXPECTED TO REACH THE EAST COAST
AND EVEN THE SOUTHERN UNITED
STATES
TONIGHT, LOWS OF MINUS 7 ARE
FORECAST IN KANSAS CITY, MINUS 9
IN ST. LOUIS
MINUS 12 IN CHICAGO.
MINUS 14 IN DES MOINES
MINUS 19 IN MILWAUKEE AND MINU
29 IN MINNEAPOLIS.
STRONG WIND GUSTS ARE EXPECTED
TO MAKE IT FEEL MORE LIKE MINU
40 OR MINUS 50 DEGREES IN SOME
OF THE AFFECTED AREAS TONIGH
AND DURING THE MORNING RUS
TOMORROW
EVEN BRIEF SKIN EXPLOSIONS CAN
LEAD TO FROSTBITE.
>> FROSTBITE OR LIKE A TINGLIN
SENSATION OR LOSS OF SENSATION
IN YOUR FINGERS, FOLLOWED BY
PAIN AND THEN COMPLETE LOSS OF
SENSATION.
>> AUTHORITIES SAID THE BEST
IDEA IS TO STAY INSIDE
>> BUT WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
TEMPERATURES THAT ARE 50 BELOW
I DON'T THINK PEOPLE FULLY
APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT JUS
FIVE MINUTES OF EXPOSED SKIN CAN
HAVE A PRETTY SERIOUS IMPACT
>> WE'RE ADVISING PEOPLE T
DON'T LEAVE YOUR HOUSE UNLES
YOU HAVE TO.
IF YOU CAN HOLD OFF ON GETTING
GROCERIES OR HOLD OFF WITHOU
THE NECESSITIES, DON'T GO ON THE
ROAD
>> DESPITE ALL THIS, I
WISCONSIN, TENS OF THOUSANDS O
GREEN BAY PACKERS FOOTBALL FAN
TURNED OUT FOR THE PLAYOFF GAM
AGAINST THE SAN FRANCISCO 49ers.
>> WE'VE BROUGHT OUR SKI BIB
AND WORK OVERALLS, INSULATED
OVERALLS AND BIG, WARM HATS.
I THINK WE'RE READY TO GO.
>> ELSEWHERE, THERE WAS SNOW
AND ICY CONDITIONS
SPIRIT AIRLINES JET WITH 145
PASSENGERS ON BOARD SLIPPED OF
THE TARMAC LAST NIGHT AT O'HAR
AIRPORT IN CHICAGO
AS IT WAS ABOUT TO TAKE OFF FO
LAS VEGAS.
AT NEW YORK JFK'S AIRPORT, A
PLANE SKIDDED OFF THE RUNWAY
AFTER TURNING OFF THE RUNWAY
FLIGHTS WERE DELAYED FOR MOR
THAN AN HOUR THERE
MORE THAN 2,000 FLIGHT
ORIGINATING IN OR HEADED TOWAR
THE UNITED STATES HAVE BEE
CANCELLED.
THIS FOLLOWING A TOTAL O
ANOTHER 4500 FLIGH
CANCELLATIONS ON FRIDAY AN
SATURDAY
AFTER A MAJOR STORM THAT DUMPE
ALMOST A FOOT OF SNOW IN PARTS
OF WISCONSIN, MICHIGAN, ILLINOIS
AND INDIANA.
THAT STORM EVENTUALLY MADE ITS
WAY EAST, LEAVING ABOUT TWO FEET
OF SNOW IN PARTS OF UPSTATE NE
YORK AND MASSACHUSETTS
>>> CONGRESS IS BACK IN SESSIO
TOMORROW
AND TODAY, SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID SAID HE'LL
PRESS FOR AN IMMEDIATE
THREE-MONTH EXTENSION OF
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT FOR 1.3
JOBLESS AMERICANS WHOSE BENEFITS
EXPIRED LAST WEEKEND
>> THE VAST MAJORITY BELIEVE
THAT UNEMPLOYMENT SHOULD B
EXTENDED
AND JOHN McCAIN'S CHIEF ECONOMIC
ADVISER DURING HIS CAMPAIGN SAID
FOR EVERY DOLLAR WE SPENT ON
UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS TH
GOVERNMENT AND THE COUNTRY GET
BACK 50 CENTS EXTRA.
IT WOULD -- IT'S SO IMPORTANT TO
DO THIS.
>> ON ABC TODAY, REPUBLICA
SENATOR RAND PAUL OF KENTUCK
WAS ASKED WHETHER HE WOULD
SUPPORT AN EXTENSION O
BENEFITS
>> WELL, WHAT I HAVE ALWAYS SAID
IT NEEDS TO BE PAID FOR, BUT W
NEED TO DO SOMETHING FOR
LONG-TERM UNEMPLOYED PEOPLE AN
CREATE SOMETHING NEW THAT WOUL
CREATE JOBS.
SO WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO WHEN WE
GET BACK IS ONE, IF WE EXTEN
IT, WE PAY FOR IT.
BUT TWO, WE ADD SOMETHING TO I
THAT WOULD CREATE JOBS
SO WHAT I HAVE BEEN PROMOTIN
ARE ECONOMIC FREEDOM ZONES WHICH
ANY AREA THAT HAS UNEMPLOYMENT
1 1/2 TIMES THE NATIONAL AVERAGE
WE WOULD DRAMATICALLY LOWE
TAXES TO TRY TO SPUR AND
STIMULATE THE ECONOMY THERE AN
CREATE JOBS.
>> IN THE COMING TERM THE SENATE
DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP IS
EXPECTED TO PUSH FOR AN INCREASE
IN THE FEDERAL MINIMUM WAGE.
IN NOVEMBER, DEMOCRATS SAID THEY
WANTED IT TO BE INCREASED DURING
THE NEXT TWO YEARS TO ABOUT $1
AN HOUR.
21 STATES INCLUDING CALIFORNIA
ILLINOIS AND CONNECTICUT PLU
THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HAV
ALREADY SET THEIR MINIMUM WAGE
ABOVE THE FEDERAL STANDARD
>>> NEW YORK COULD SOON BECOME
THE 21th STATE TO PERMIT MEDICAL
USE OF MARIJUANA
GOVERNOR CUOMO WILL UNVEIL A
PLAN LATER THIS WEEK THAT WOUL
ALLOW 20 HOSPITALS ACROSS TH
STATE TO PRESCRIBE MARIJUANA T
PATIENTS SUCHING FROM CANCER
GLAUCOMA AND OTHER CONDITIONS.
CUOMO CAN MAKE THE CHANG
WITHOUT LEGISLATIVE APPROVAL
>>> TURNING OVERSEAS NOW, THAT
BATTLE TO REGAIN CONTROL O
RAMADI AND FULL WHAT JA RAGED ON
TODAY.
THE BOMBING OF THE AL QAED
POSITIONS WERE SHOWN THERE
THE BOMBING RESULTED IN TH
DEATHS OF AN ESTIMATED 2
ISLAMIC MILITANTS, 22 SOLDIERS
AND 12 CIVILIANS WERE ALSO
REPORTEDLY KILLED IN THE
FIGHTING
MEMBERS OF A GROUP LINKED TO A
QAEDA OVERRAN BOTH CITIES IN THE
PAST FEW DAYS AND HAVE BEE
FENDING OFF GOVERNMENT FORCES.
>>> THERE WAS MORE VIOLENCE IN
BAGHDAD TODAY AS WELL.
AUTHORITIES SAID AT LEAST 20
PEOPLE WERE KILLED AFTER A
SERIES OF CAR AND ROADSIDE
BOMBINGS IN COMMERCIAL AREAS O
THE CITY
VIOLENCE BETWEEN SUNNI AND
SHIITE MUSLIMS IS AT THE HIGHEST
LEVEL IN SIX YEARS
9,000 IRAQIS DIED IN VIOLENCE IN
>>> SECRETARY OF STATE JOH
KERRY SAID HE WAS QUOTE, VERY,
VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE LATES
EVENTS IN IRAQ AS HE CONTINUED
HIS PEACE INITIATIVE IN TH
MIDDLE EAST TODAY.
HE SAID THE UNITED STATES WOUL
SUPPORT IRAQ, BUT WOULD NOT BE
REINTRODUCING TROOPS THERE
THE U.S. RECENTLY SENT MISSILE
TO THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT TO HEL
IT FIGHT MILITANTS
DURING A NEWS CONFERENCE TODAY
IN JERUSALEM, HE HELD OUT TH
POSSIBILITY THAT IRAN COULD PLAY
A CONSTRUCTIVE ROLE ENDING THE
CIVIL WAR INSY YA EVEN IF IT'S
NOT PART OF THE PEACE CONFERENCE
SET TO BEGIN IN GENEVA LATER
THIS MONTH
>>> POPE FRANCIS ANNOUNCED HE'LL
TRAVEL TO THE MIDDLE EAST THIS
SPRING
DURING HIS WEEKLY SUNDAY
BLESSING, HE SAID HE WOULD VISIT
JORDAN AND THE WEST BANK DURIN
A PILGRIMAGE OF PRAYER
HE WILL MEET WITH ORTHODOX AND
PROPERTY STAND LEADERS
>>> AN ICE BREAKER IS TRYING T
RESCUE MORE THAN 120 CRE
MEMBERS ABOARD TWO OTHER ICE
BREAKERS THAT BECAME TRAPPED I
THE ICE.
THE POLAR STAR LEFT SYDNEY
AUSTRALIA ON A WEEK-LONG VOYAGE.
THE GOAL IS TO REACH THE 101
CREW MEMBERS ABOARD THE CHINES
VESSEL
AND AUTHORITIES SAY THE CREW
MEMBERS ABOARD BOTH SHIPS HAVE
AMPLE PROVISIONS AND ARE IN NO
IMMEDIATE DANGER
>>> WITH ALL THE TALK ABOUT
POSSIBLE MILITARY CONFLICT
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND IRAN, A NEW
SOURCE MIGHT BE EMERGING
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL
REPORTED THAT HEZBOLLAH IS
GETTING MORE ADVANCED WEAPONRY
THAT COULD BE FAR MORE PRECISE
IN THEIR ATTACKS
CHARLES LEVINSON WAS ONE OF TH
AUTHORS OF THE PIECE
I SPOKE WITH HIM YESTERDAY
THERE'S BEEN THIS ARMS RAC
UNDER THE GUYS OF THE SYRIAN WAR
THAT'S BEEN HAPPENING IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD
WHO'S GETTING WHAT KIND OF
WEAPONS?
>> RIGHT, SO WHEN ASSAD STARTS
TO LOSE CONTROL IN SYRIA I
2012, IRAN AND SYRIA WAN
HEZBOLLAH TO LEND ITS EXPERTES
TO THE FIGHT
HEZBOLLAH WAS RELUCTANT BECAUS
OF ITS OWN DOMESTI
CONSIDERATIONS INSIDE LEBANON TO
SWEETEN THE DEAL, IRAN BASICALLY
OFFERED HEZBOLLAH TO UPGRADE THE
WEAPONS ARSENAL FROM HAVING TENS
OF THOUSANDS, ABOUT 100,00
UNGUIDED DUMB BOMBS AND ROCKET
AND MISSILES TO HAVING SMART
GUIDED, YOU KNOW, HAVING SMART
GUIDED MISSILES THAT CAN HIT
PRECISE TARGETS INSIDE ISRAEL.
SO THE WEAPONS TRANSFERS WE'RE
LOOKING AT SO FAR ARE THE SA-17.
AN ANTI- -- SORT OF A HIGHLY
MOBILE ADVANCED ANTI-AIRCRAF
MISSILE THAT WOULD SORT OF
REALLY THREATEN ISRAEL'S
DOMINANCE IN THE SKIES ABOVE
LEBANON.
ESPECIALLY THE HELICOPTERS
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE VER
PRECISE, WITHIN -- CAN'T
REMEMBER -- A FEW HUNDRED METERS
LET'S SAY, SURFACE TO SURFAC
MISSILES THAT CAN BE REACH ALL
OF ISRAEL.
AND SOMETHING CALLED THE SHIP --
SURFACE TO SHIP ANTI-SHI
MISSILE WHICH CAN TAKE OUT ALL
ISRAELI -- CAN TAKE OUT AN
ISRAELI SHIP PATROLLING TH
MEDITERRANEAN OFF THE COAST OF
LEBANON.
>> THESE ARE MISSILES NOW IN
LEBANON AND IN SYRIA WHERE
HEZBOLLAH STORES THEM?
SO HEZBOLLAH OPERATES IN LEBANON
AND ALSO HAS THE PRESENCE INSIDE
SYRIA.
INCLUDING WAREHOUSES AND BASES
AND WHATNOT.
SO IN THE WAY THE TRANSFER
USUALLY WORK, SYRIA TRANSFER
THE WEAPONS TO HEZBOLLAH INSID
SYRIA AND THEN HEZBOLLAH
TRANSFERS THEM, YOU KNOW, WHEN
IT WANTS TO INSIDE LEBANON
IT'S NOT -- THERE IS CONFLICTING
REPORTS IN HOW SUCCESSFUL THEY
HAVE BEEN IN GETTING THEM INTO
HEZBOLLAH'S HANDS AND INSIDE
LEBANON.
BUT IT APPEARS THAT WE HAV
STARTED TO SEE AT LEAST SOME O
THE ADVANCED WEAPONS INSID
HEZBOLLAH'S HANDS, INSID
LEBANON.
>> RIGHT
ISRAEL HAS BEEN TRYING TO STOP
THESE IN THE PAST YEAR THEY HAVE
ACTUALLY HAD FIVE AIR ATTACK
INTO SYRIA
BUT WITHOUT CROSSING INTO SYRIAN
AIR SPACE.
HOW DO THEY DO THAT?
>> ONCE ISRAEL GETS WIND OF TH
TRANSACTIONS GOING ON IN 2013,
ISRAEL STARTED TO LAUNCH AIR
STRIKES EVERY TIME IT WAS AWAR
OF ONE OF THE WEAPONS TRANSFERS.
AND ISRAEL DOESN'T WANT TO GET
TANGLED UP IN THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT
SO THEY TRIED TO TAKE OUT TH
WEAPONS SHIPMENTS WITHOU
CROSSING THE SYRIAN AIR SPACE.
SO THEY DEPLOYED A REMARKABL
TACTIC TO DO THIS.
TO TAKE OUT THE WEAPONS WITHOU
CROSSING THE SYRIAN AIR SPACE,
THE PILOTS HAVE USED THIS TACTIC
CALLED LOFTING WHERE THEY GU
IT, IF THEY GUN THEIR PLANES
TOWARDS SYRIAN AIR SPACE AT TH
LAST MINUTE THEY ACCELERATE AN
GO UP AND ON THEIR HEADS U
DISPLAYS ON THEIR PLANES, THEY
HAVE A BASKET ICON THAT'S TH
TARGET
AND HAVE TO TIME THE LAUNCH OF
THE PAYLOADS OF THE ARCING -
YOU KNOW, TO HIT THE TARGETS
WITHOUT GOING INTO THE SYRIA
AIR SPACE.
>> CHARLES LEVINSON, FROM "THE
WALL STREET JOURNAL," THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT FEATURING ORIGINAL I
DEPTH REPORTING FROM AROUND TH
NATION AND THE WORLD
OUR FOCUS TONIGHT A NEW APPROACH
DESIGNED TO REDUCE THE NUMBER OF
PEOPLE KILLED BECAUSE OF
DRINKING AND DRIVING
ABOUT 10,000 AMERICANS DIE I
DRUNK DRIVING ACCIDENTS EACH
YEAR
IT'S ALSO A SERIOUS PROBLEM IN
CANADA
BUT A NEW PROGRAM IN BRITISH
COLUMBIA HAS BEEN VERY
SUCCESSFUL REDUCING THE NUMBER
OF DEATHS.
NEWSHOUR CORRESPONDENT RECENTL
TRAVELLED THERE AND WE
ORIGINALLY BROADCAST I
SEPTEMBER.
>> SIX YEARS AGO, A TERRIBLE
FAMILY TRAGEDY OCCURRED HERE I
ROYAL BRITISH COLUMBIA
BUT OVER TIME, IT BECAME MUC
MORE THAN THAT
THIS TRAGEDY SET IN MOTION
DRAMATIC CHANGES TO THE LAWS
GOVERNING DRINKING AND DRIVING
CHANGES THAT SUPPORTERS SAY HAVE
ALREADY SAVED DOZENS OF LIVES.
THAT TRAGEDY INVOLVED
4-YEAR-OLD GIRL.
HER NAME WAS ALEXA MIDDLEAR.
>> IT WAS A BEAUTIFUL MAY LONG
WEEKEND AND MY DAUGHTER LOVE
THIS ONE PARTICULAR HORSE.
AND SHE REALLY WANTED TO SHO
HER GRANDPARENTS THAT HORSE, AND
SO I REMEMBER SAYING GOOD-BYE TO
HER.
THEN VERY SHORTLY AFTER THAT, WE
HEARD ALL KINDS OF SIRENS AND AT
THAT MOMENT, I JUST -- I JUS
KNEW I SAID IT'S ALEXA
SOMETHING HAS HAPPENED TO ALEXA.
>> A 56-YEAR-OLD WOMAN DOING
NEARLY TWICE THE SPEED LIMIT
SMASHED INTO THE EXACT SPO
WHERE ALEXA STOOD, FEEDING THE
HORSE ON THE SIDE OF TO ROAD
THE WOMAN WHO WAS LATER CONVIC
AND SECOND TO PRISON ADMITTED TO
POLICE SHE HAD HAD THREE GLASSES
OF WINE BEFORE GETTING INTO HE
CAR.
>> WHEN WE KNEW ROADSIDE THA
OUR DAUGHTER WAS DEAD, I
REMEMBER MY HUSBAND JUST IN TH
AMBULANCE, WE BOTH HELD EACH
OTHER AND HE SAID, THIS WILL NOT
BREAK US
THIS WILL DEFINE US.
THIS WILL BE SOME GOOD IN THIS
>> AFTER THE ACCIDENT, ALEXA'S
PARENTS MICHAEL AND LAUREL
LAUNCHED A CAMPAIGN TO TRY AND
CHANGE THE CULTURE AROUN
DRINKING AND DRIVING, TO DETER
PEOPLE FROM DOING IT
THEIR EVENT BECAME A REGULAR
FEATURE ON LOCAL NEWS.
>> WE WILL HONOR OUR DAUGHTE
AND WE WILL MAKE THE NECESSARY
CHANGES THAT NUMBER ONE --
>> BUT THEY SOON REALIZED IT
WOULD TAKE MORE THAN THAT.
THEY REALIZED THEY'D HAVE TO
CHANGE THE DRUNK DRIVING LAWS,
WHICH LIKE IN THE U.S. SET THE
LEGAL BLOOD ALCOHOL LIMIT AT
0.08%.
AFTER LOBBYING THE GOVERNMEN
FOR NEARLY A YEAR, ALONGSIDE
GROUPS LIKE MOTHERS AGAINS
DRUNK DRIVING, THEIR EFFORTS
PAID OFF
IN 2010, THE PROVINCIA
GOVERNMENT NOT ONLY STIFFENE
PENALTIES AGAINST DRIVING AT
0.08, BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY I
TARGETED DRIVERS WHO FALL BELO
THAT LEVEL TO 0.05%.
DRIVERS WHO ARE NOT LEGALL
DRUNK.
THE RATIONALE?
EVEN A FEW DRINKS, AS FEW AS TWO
FOR A WOMAN, THREE FOR A MAN CAN
IMPAIR YOUR ABILITY TO DRIVE
IF YOU'RE CAUGHT DRIVING WITH
0.05% LEVEL, THE POLICE AR
AUTHORIZED TO FINE YOU, SUSPEN
YOUR DRIVER'S LICENSE AN
IMMEDIATELY IMPOUND YOUR CAR FOR
AT LEAST THREE DAYS.
THEY WOULD GET YOU OUT OF TH
VEHICLE AND A TOW TRUCK WOUL
HAUL IT AWAY
IN LATE 2010, POLICE BEGAN
ENFORCING THE NEW LAWS AND
POLICE IMPOUND LOTS ACROSS
BRITISH COLUMBIA BEGAN FILLING
UP
THE CHANGES SPARKED AN UPROAR.
CIVIL LIBERTARIANS SAID IT GAV
THE POLICE TOO MUCH POWER.
RESTAURANT OWNERS SAY THAT THE
NEW LAWS DAMAGED THE ECONOMY
HE SAID HIS BUSINESS DROPPED
BETWEEN 10 AND 20%
>> WHEN THE THE CHANGE CAME OUT,
WE KNEW THAT WAS GOING TO HAVE A
STRONG IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.
>> WHAT DID YOU THINK, THA
CUSTOMERS WOULD SUDDENLY B
AFRAID AND THAT THEY WOULDN'
COME TO YOUR DOOR?
>> WE THOUGHT THAT THERE WAS A
LOT OF UNKNOWNS ABOUT WHAT THA
MEANT, HOW MANY DRINKS COULD
PEOPLE HAVE.
THERE WAS LITTLE INFORMATION
ABOUT HOW THAT WAS GOING TO BE
ENFORCED
HOW IT WAS GOING TO IMPACT WHA
PEOPLE COULD DRINK
WE WERE CREATING NONALCOHOLI
DRINKS TO MAKE UP FOR THOSE LOST
SALES.
IT REALLY WAS A LOT OF FEAR.
A LOT OF UNKNOWNS.
AND SOME REAL CHANGES IN
PEOPLE'S BEHAVIOR.
>> AND THE IMPACT WAS IMMEDIATE.
DURING THE FIRST YEAR THE NE
LAWS WERE IN EFFECT, THE NUMBE
OF DRUNK DRIVING DEATHS PLUNGED.
CRITICS ARGUED FOR FIRST YEA
WAS A FLUKE, BUT THE SECOND YEAR
THE NUMBER DECLINED AGAIN.
A 55% REDUCTION IN DEATHS IN
JUST TWO YEARS
THE MESSAGE IT SEEMED HA
STARTED TO GET THROUGH T
DRIVERS.
>> SO IT WAS QUITE WEL
PUBLICIZED
FOR THE DETERRENTS TO WORK IT'
ABOUT KNOWING AND EXPECTIN
THERE BEING A CONSEQUENCE THAT
ACTUALLY IS LIKELY
PEOPLE'S PERCEPTION THEY'R
LIKELY TO BE CAUGHT IS WAY
HIGHER THAN IT WAS
>> THAT'S KEY?
>> IT'S KEY.
>> STILL STOCKWELL IS AN EXPER
ON ALCOHOL, AND HE CAN'T THINK
OF A SINGLE REFORM THAT'S HA
THIS BIG OF AN IMPACT, THI
QUICKLY.
HE AND HIS COLLEAGUES HAD A PEER
REVIEWED ARTICLE OF THE NE
LAWS
>> THIS IS A PERFECT DETERRENC
THEORY IN ACTION
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND YOU DON'T NEE
DRACONIAN, SEVERE PENALTIES.
THEY HAVE TO BE SEVERE ENOUGH.
IT'S MORE IMPORTANT THAT THE
ARE CERTAIN AND THAT THEY AR
SWIFT.
SO ON THE SPOT, LOSING YOUR CA
FOR THREE DAYS OR A WEEK, THAT'S
SEVERE ENOUGH.
>> THE NEW LAWS HAVE FACED SOM
SETBACKS
THE POLICE HAD PROBLEMS WITH
SOME OF THEIR BREATHALYZERS.
THE GOVERNMENT HAD TO AMEND TH
LAWS WHEN THE COURTS RULED THA
DRIVERS DESERVED A BETTE
APPEALS PROCESS.
A JUDGE RULED IN FAVOR OF
DRIVER WHO APPEALED HIS 2012
DRIVING SUSPENSION
CRITICS SAY THAT MAY FORCE A
REWRITING OF THE LAWS BUT FO
NOW THAT HASN'T HAPPENED
THE HEART OF THE NEW LAWS REMAIN
INTACT
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT THERE
ARE SO MANY LIVES SAVED BY THE
NEW RULES THAT YES, IT MAY HAV
TAKEN A HIT OUT OF YOU
BUSINESS, BUT THAT TO SAVE
PEOPLE'S LIVES THAT'S AN OKA
PRICE TO PAY
>> IT'S HARD TO ARGUE THAT
I'M CERTAINLY NOT GOING TO SIT
HERE AND SAY, WELL, WE SHOUL
ALLOW PEOPLE TO DRINK WHATEVER
AND WHATEVER THE CONSEQUENCE
ARE THAT'S THE WAY IT WOULD BE
I WOULDN'T ADVOCATE THAT
>> WHY DO YOU THINK IT'S BEEN SO
EFFECTIVE?
>> BECAUSE THE CONSEQUENCE I
FIRM
I THINK PEOPLE RESPOND WHE
THERE'S A HARSHER CONSEQUENCE.
I THINK TOO BECAUSE IT'S ALIGNED
TO THE LARGER GOAL
LIKE SECONDHAND SMOKE.
WE HAVE NO TOLERANCE FOR THA
ANYMORE.
JUST LIKE WHEN SEAT BELTS CAME
IN, THERE WAS THE FUNDAMENTA
SHIFT.
MY GOAL HAS BEEN IS THAT THERE'S
A FUNDAMENTAL SHIFT THAT IT'
OKAY NOT TO DRINK AND DRIVE.
DRINK, ABSOLUTELY.
DRINK AND PARTAKE, BUT DON'T MIX
IT WITH DRIVING.
>>> USING INTERACTIVE MA
SHOWING THE ROLE THAT ALCOHO
PLAYS IN ROAD FATALITIES AROUN
THE WORLD, GO TO
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> MICHAEL BLOOMBERG LEFT
OFFICE AFTER SERVING 12 YEARS OF
MAYOR OF NEW YORK CITY
SOME POINT TO THE PLUNGING CRIME
RATE AND OTHERS POINT TO INCOM
INEQUALITY
WHEN I SPOKE WITH THE REPORTER
KATHERINE BAGLEY OF INSIDE
CLIMATE NEWS, SHE SAID IT WA
SOMETHING ELSE ALTOGETHER.
I ASKED HER WHY SHE CONSIDER
THE MAYOR'S EFFORTS TO ADDRESS
CLIMATE CHANGE TO BE S
SIGNIFICANT.
>> SO HE'S BEEN WORKING FOR TH
PAST SIX YEARS ON SUSTAINABILITY
IN CLIMATE CHANGE INITIATIVES.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT GETS VER
LITTLE ATTENTION IN THE PUBLIC
AND BY THE MEDIA
AND YET, WHAT HE'S DONE IS BOT
A PHYSICAL TRANSFORMATION OF THE
CITY AND ALSO SOMETHING THAT A
LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T SEE, THING
LIKE REDUCING EMISSIONS AN
HARMFUL POLLUTANTS IN THE AIR.
>> ALL RIGHT
SO WE SEE THE BIKE LANES ALL
OVER TOWN.
WE SEE PERHAPS SOME OF THE
IMPACTS ON TRANSPORTATIO
INFRASTRUCTURE
BUT WHAT ARE SOME OF THE LONGE
TERM PROJECTS?
WHAT'S THAT LEGACY GOING TO BE
LIKE
>> SO, YOU KNOW, A LOT OF WHAT
THEY HAVE DONE IS TAKING THE
THOUSANDS OF BUILDINGS IN NE
YORK CITY AND REALLY SWITCHING
THEIR HEATING FUEL SOURCE FROM
THESE KIND OF REALLY HEAVILY
POLLUTING FUELS TO MORE -- T
CLEANER ENERGY SOURCES
AND THAT IS KIND OF ONE OF THE
BIG PROJECTS THAT A LOT OF
PEOPLE DON'T SEE
SO FAR, 5,200 BUILDINGS HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED AND THERE'
THOUSANDS MORE THAT HAVE T
COMPLY AS WELL
BUT, YOU KNOW, A LOT OF TH
LONGER TERM INITIATIVES CAME I
AFTER HURRICANE SANDY HIT,
BECAUSE THEY HAD BEEN WORKIN
FOR FIVE YEARS ON MITIGATION
REDUCING EMISSIONS AND
INCREASING GREEN SPACE
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
THINGS LIKE THAT
THEN SANDY HIT AND THERE WAS
KIND OF A WAKE-UP CALL ABOUT HOW
VULNERABLE THE CITY WAS.
THEY HAD KNOWN ABOUT HOW
VULNERABLE IT WAS, BUT IT MADE
IT APPARENT TO THE PUBLIC AN
THERE WAS A PUSH TO BUILD TH
BIGGER PROJECTS.
SO YOU'LL SEE NEW YORK
TRANSFERRED WITH SEA WELLS AND
KIND OF THE MASSIV
TRANSFORMATION PROJECTS ALL OVER
THE 520 MILES OF THE NEW YOR
CITY'S COASTLINES.
>> LET'S TALK ABOUT TH
INFRASTRUCTURE ISSUE, BUILDING
INSURANCE CHANGES.
THE PARK SYSTEMS CHANGE.
EVEN HOW WE THINK ABOUT ENERGY
IS CHANGING IN THIS CITY
>> IT IS
AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S BEEN A
GRADUAL TRANSFORMATION
IT WAS NOT ONE THAT CAME EASILY.
HIS ADMINISTRATION HAD TO FIGH
FOR THESE THINGS TO GET DONE
THEY NEVER GAVE UP
YOU KNOW, THEY STARTED THEIR
PLAN NYC IN 2007 IS WHEN THE
OFFICIALLY LAUNCHED IT
THEN YOU HAD THE RECESSION HIT
NOT A YEAR LATER
YOU HAD A LOT OF PEOPLE THAT
SAID, WHOA, LET'S BACK OFF
LET'S STOP DOING ALL THE MASSIVE
PROJECTS AND START THE CITY FROM
HAVING NO DEFICIT TO HAVING
$4 BILLION DEFICIT IN A YEAR
YET T BLOOMBERG ADMINISTRATION
JUST PUSHED FORWARD.
THIS WAS VERY MUCH LED BY TH
MAYOR SAYING, NO, WE SAID WE'R
GOING TO DO THIS
WE'RE GOING TO DO THIS
>> DOES HE PLAN CONTINUE DOING
THIS AFTER HIS MAYORSHIP
>> YEAH, WE HAD AN INTERVIEW
WITH HIM IN SEPTEMBER.
HE SAID THAT HE VERY MUCH WANT
TO STAY INVOLVED IN CLIMAT
CHANGE
HE IS INVOLVED IN -- IT'S CALLED
C-40
INTERNATIONAL COALITION OF
MAYORS FROM COUNTRIES ACROSS THE
GLOBE.
AND HE -- WHAT THEY'RE TRY DOING
IS TAKE ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
IN WAYS THAT FEDERAL GOVERNMENTS
AREN'T
SO HE'S -- HE PLANS TO STAY VERY
INVOLVED IN THAT
HE'S CURRENTLY THE LEADER OF
THAT HE'S LAUNCHING A PROGRAM TO
KIND OF LOOK AT THE ACTUAL COS
OF CLIMATE CHANGE IN THE U.S
OVER THE NEXT FEW YEARS AN
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN AND S
HE'S VERY MUCH INVOLVED, BUT I'M
NOT SURE HOW MUCH HE'LL STAY
INVOLVED IN NEW YORK CITY.
>> THE BOOK IS THE -- THE EBOO
IS CALLED "HIDDEN LEGACY AND THE
FUTURE OF NEW YORK CITY.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>>> FROM THE RECENT BOMBINGS I
VOLGOGRAD TO THE STANCE ON THE
POLITICAL PROTESTS THE STORIES
LEADING UP TO THE OLYMPICS I
SOCHI HAVEN'T FOCUSED ON SPORTS.
THE SAME MAY BE TRUE FOR THE
SUMMER GAMES IN 2016 IN RIO de
JANEIRO.
WE HAVE A REPORT
>> THE OLYMPICS IN 2016 MIGH
SEEM A LONG WAY OFF.
BUT THERE ARE ALREAD
INTERNATIONAL TEAMS OUT IN RIO
TRAINING
THE BACK DROP IS BREATHTAKING.
BUT UP CLOSE -
>> REALLY BAD.
I DON'T WANT TO PUT MY HAND IN
THERE.
AND LET ALONE SAIL IN IT
>> WHAT'S IT MEAN FOR TH
OLYMPICS
>> IT WILL MEAN HEALTH PROBLEM
FOR THE SAILORS.
FOR A START.
BECAUSE IF YOU SWALLOW ANY O
THAT, DIARRHEA AND SICKNESS AN
THAT STUFF
IT'S A DISGRACE.
>> POLLUTION IN SOME AREAS I
WAY ABOVE ACCEPTABLE LEVELS.
SCIENTISTS TESTING THE WATER SAY
THE NARROW ENTRANCE TO THE BAY
MEANS THE SEA CAN'T FLUSH IT
OUT.
PLUS, IT'S WHAT PEOPLE PUT I
IT
>> THE WATER QUALITY ISN'T GOO
BECAUSE THERE ARE MANY
COMMUNITIES AROUND IT,
ESPECIALLY POOR ONES WHERE
RUBBISH COLLECTION AND SEWAG
TREATMENT SIMPLY AREN'T GOOD
ENOUGH
>> AROUND THE EDGES OF THE HUG
BAY ARE THOUSANDS OF FILTH
RIVERS AND CANALS.
A POOR SUBSTITUTE FOR A PROPER
SANITATION SYSTEM.
IT LOOKS BAD AND BELIEVE ME IT
SMELLS TERRIBLE.
THE MAIN CAUSE OF THE PROBLEM IS
THAT THE AUTHORITIES HAVEN'T
CONNECTED UP MILLIONS OF HOMES
TO A PROPERLY FUNCTIONING SEWAGE
IS NEARLY 70% OF IT GETS WASHE
UNTREATED OUT INTO THE BAY O
THE SEA.
THE AUTHORITIES SAY POLLUTIO
WILL HAVE BEEN CUT BY 80% WHEN
THE OLYMPICS START
AND RIO 2016 THE ORGANIZER
GUARANTEE ATHLETES WILL NOT BE
AT RISK.
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON TH
NEWSHOUR, ON AIR AND ONLINE.
FROM SYRIA TO SOUTH SUDAN, A
LOOK AT THE HUMANITARIAN CRISE
WITH THE HEAD OF THE WORLD FOO
PROGRAM.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.